Feature/docsite #15 (#16)
zeppelinos/zeppelin-solidity-hot-loader: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/dapp.adoc

= Building a Dapp with Solidity Hot Loader

> == Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In this guide, we will build a simple Dapp using the Solidity Hot Loader. We will create a Counter Dapp, which displays the value of a Counter that can be increased. We will update the code in the smart contract to show the power of the Solidity Hot Loader to automatically update the Dapp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide we will build a simple Dapp using the Solidity Hot Loader: it will display the value of a `Counter` that can be increased. Then, we will update the code in the smart contract to show the power of the Solidity Hot Loader by automatically updating the Dapp.
```

== Setup

We will use the https://create-react-app.dev/[`create-react-app`] package to bootstrap a React application.

> First we need a local blockchain to develop on. We use `ganache-cli`, so go ahead and install (if you haven’t already) and then run a local blockchain using `ganache-cli`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we need a xref:learn::deploying-and-interacting.adoc#local-blockchain[local blockchain] to develop on. We will use `ganache-cli`, so go ahead and install it (if you haven’t already) and then run a new instance:
```

[source,console]
----
$ npm install -g ganache-cli
$ ganache-cli --deterministic
----

Next we need a project directory to develop our project in. In a separate terminal create the project directory and create `package.json` with `npm init`.

[source,console]
----
$ mkdir myproject && cd myproject
$ npm init -y
----

> We use the OpenZeppelin CLI for compiling and deploying our contract, so go ahead and install *OpenZeppelin CLI*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll use the xref:cli::index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin CLI*] for compiling and deploying our contract. Install it and initialize your project with it:
```

Reviewer: I'd merge the `install` and `init` snippets after this

[source,console]
----
$ npm install @openzeppelin/cli
----

Next, initialize the project with OpenZeppelin. This will create directories and config for our project.

[source,console]
----

> $ npx openzeppelin init

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ npx oz init
```

? Welcome to the OpenZeppelin SDK! Choose a name for your project myproject
? Initial project version 1.0.0
Project initialized. Write a new contract in the contracts folder and run 'openzeppelin create' to deploy it.
----

> == Counter contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== `Counter` Contract
```

> Our Counter smart contract consists of an integer `value` and a function to increase it by one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our `Counter` smart contract consists of an integer `value` and a function to increase it by one:
```

> In the `contracts` directory save `Counter.sol` with the following contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Skip in favor of comments on the code - I find the setup becomes too verbose otherwise

[source,solidity]
----

> pragma solidity ^0.5.0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// contracts/Counter.sol
pragma solidity ^0.5.0;
```

contract Counter {
    uint256 public value;

    function increase() public {
        value = value + 1;
    }
}
----

> Next we deploy the Counter contract to our local blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Merge with the following paragraph

> Run `npx openzeppelin create` and use the interactive commands to deploy the Counter contract to the development network. There is no function that we need to call to `initialize`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will now deploy our `Counter` contract to the local blockchain with `npx oz create`, replying 'no' when prompted to call an initialize function:
```

[source,console]
----

> $ npx openzeppelin create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ npx oz create
```

✓ Compiled contracts with solc 0.5.14 (commit.1f1aaa4)
? Pick a contract to instantiate Counter
? Pick a network development
✓ Added contract Counter
✓ Contract Counter deployed
All contracts have been deployed
? Call a function to initialize the instance after creating it? No
✓ Setting everything up to create contract instances
✓ Instance created at 0xCfEB869F69431e42cdB54A4F4f105C19C080A601
0xCfEB869F69431e42cdB54A4F4f105C19C080A601
----

> == Creating the dapp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Creating the Dapp
```
I use https://capitalizemytitle.com/ to check for title capitalization, the 'rules' are not very straightforward

We will create our dapp using the `create-react-app` package, which bootstraps a simple client-side application using React.

[source,console]
----
$ npx create-react-app client
----

== Setup Solidity Hot Loader

> Now that the directories for our dapp have been created, we can install Solidity Hot Loader. In the `client` directory install *Solidity Hot Loader* and `json-loader`.

Reviewer: I'd add an explanation for _why_ we're doing this now: the Solidity Loader is a Webpack loader, so we'll be able to load our contracts into the dapp using `import`.

Author: Updated

[source,console]
----
$ npm install @openzeppelin/solidity-loader json-loader
----

Next up, we configure Solidity Hot Loader and set it to enabled. To stop the Solidity Hot Loader automagically updating our contracts, set disabled to `true`.

In the `client` directory create a `config` directory. In the `config` directory create a `webpack.js` file for the Solidity Hot Loader webpack rule with the following code, notice that we are starting with the Solidity Hot Loader enabled (`disabled: false`):

[source,javascript]
----

> const solidityLoaderOptions = {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// client/config/webpack.js

const solidityLoaderOptions = {
```

  network: 'development',
  // you can stop loader from automatic compile/push/upgrade
  // action by setting disabled flag to true, but it will still
  // serve .json files from file system
  disabled: false,
};

module.exports = {
  solidityLoader: {
    test: /\.sol$/,
    use: [
      { loader: 'json-loader' },
      {
        loader: '@openzeppelin/solidity-loader',
        options: solidityLoaderOptions,
      },
    ],
  },
  solidityLoaderOptions,
};
----

We now add in the Solidity Hot Loader to webpack.  In the `client` directory create a `config-overrides.js` file with the following code:

[source,javascript]
----

> /* config-overrides.js */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// client/config-overrides.js
```

const { solidityLoader } = require('./config/webpack');

module.exports = function override(config, env) {
  //do stuff with the webpack config...

  // allow importing from outside of app/src folder, ModuleScopePlugin prevents this.
  const scope = config.resolve.plugins.findIndex(o => o.constructor.name === 'ModuleScopePlugin');
  if (scope > -1) {
    config.resolve.plugins.splice(scope, 1);
  }

  // add solidity loader support
  // have to insert before last loader, because CRA user 'file-loader' as default one
  config.module.rules.splice(config.module.rules - 2, 0, solidityLoader);

  return config;
};
----

In this guide we use https://github.com/timarney/react-app-rewired[`react-app-rewired`] to rewire `create-react-app` webpack configs to add in the Solidity Hot Loader without ejecting from `create-react-app`.

In the `client` directory, install `react-app-rewired`

[source,console]
----
$ npm i react-app-rewired
----

To use `react-app-rewired`, we now need to change the `package.json` scripts.  In `package.json` in the `client` directory, update the scripts to use `react-app-rewired` so that they looks as follows:

> [source,javascript]

Reviewer: I think this may read better as a `diff`

Author: Changed to `diff`

----

>   "scripts": {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// package.json
  ...
  "scripts": {
```

    "start": "react-app-rewired start",
    "build": "react-app-rewired build",
    "test": "react-app-rewired test",
    "eject": "react-scripts eject"

>   },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  },
  ...
```

----

== Add the dapp code

> We will use https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-network.js[OpenZeppelin Network.js] to access the Web3 provider. *OpenZeppelin Network.js* is an easy to use and reliable library that provides one line access to the web3 API. It can be used in both React and in (vanilla) JavaScript. It also supports the Gas Station Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use xref:network-js::index.adoc[[OpenZeppelin Network JS*] to access the Web3 provider. This is an easy to use and reliable library that provides one line access to the web3 API. It can be used in both React and (vanilla) JavaScript, and it also supports the Gas Station Network.
```

First we change to the `client` directory.  Then, install *OpenZeppelin Network.js*

[source,console]
----
$ cd client
$ npm install @openzeppelin/network 
----

> Our dapp will display a Counter that we can increase the value of, consisting of displaying the value and a button to increase the counter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our dapp will display the state of `Counter` and provide a button that increases it.
```

In the code below, first we import `useWeb3Injected` from the React implementation of *OpenZeppelin Network.js* (`@openzeppelin/network/react`). We then get a `web3Context` using `useWeb3Injected`. The dapp loads the Counter json artifact. The display of the Counter is handled in a component. To start, on the `client/src/App.js` file, replace the placeholder code in `App.js` in our react project with the following code:

[source,javascript]
----

> import React, { useState } from 'react';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// client/src/App.js
import React, { useState } from 'react';
```

To use `react-app-rewired`, we now need to change the `package.json` scripts.  In `package.json` in the `client` directory, update the scripts to use `react-app-rewired` so that they looks as follows:

> [source,diff]

Reviewer: When using `diff`, it's better to start all lines that don't have a `+` or `-` with an extra space, so that we don't screw up the indentation.

Here for example, they end up with 3 levels of indentation instead of 2
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2530770/72356200-9ab27580-36c7-11ea-9cea-7e2a3a828a57.png)

----
// package.json
  ...
  "scripts": {
+    "start": "react-app-rewired start",
+    "build": "react-app-rewired build",
+    "test": "react-app-rewired test",

> -    "start": "react-scripts start",

Reviewer: Oh, interesting! I didn't know you had to change the original `react-scritps` for these`.

@frangio is it possible to use highlightjs to highlight the actual change on each line?

Reviewer 2: I couldn't find anything.
